---
url: /en/manual/shipping/rates-and-methods/custom-calculated-rates/usps
gid: f97279bc-d304-4e39-98fc-3c0ae90def62
title: Activate shipping with USPS
short_title: USPS
description: Activate USPS and show your customers calculated rates when they check out from your online Shopify store.
legacy-urls:
  - /manual/shipping/rates-and-methods/calculated-rates/usps
  - /manual/shipping/rates-and-methods/carriers/usps
  - /manual/shipping/rates-and-methods/custom-carrier-accounts/usps
  - /manual/shipping/shopify-shipping/carriers
weight: 2
keywords:
  - USPS
  - carriers
  - third-party
  - third party
  - carrier-calculated
  - calculated
  - rates
  - carrier calculated
  - credentials
  - shipping
---
If you've negotiated a discounted rate with USPS, then you can enter your User ID when you activate your USPS service in your Shopify admin so that the discounted rate appears to your customers at checkout.

>Growth:
>If your store is eligible for [Shopify Shipping](/manual/shipping/shopify-shipping), then calculated rates for USPS are enabled by default in your Shopify admin. You do not need to register for a separate USPS User ID, and can get started by [buying a shipping label](/manual/shipping/shopify-shipping/buy-and-print) for your next order.

## Register for a USPS User ID

>Note:
>This feature requires that your store is on the Advanced Shopify plan, is on the Shopify Plus plan, or has the calculated shipping plan upgrade.

Register for a USPS Web Tools user ID by filling out the [USPS Web Tools registration form](https://registration.shippingapis.com).

When you have completed the signup process, USPS will mail you a user ID. Make a note of this, as you will need your USPS user ID to complete the activation in Shopify.

Your USPS Web Tools user ID is a combination of letters and numbers, for example `123ABCDE1234`, that is automatically generated by USPS.

The user ID will give you access to package tracking, rate, and service delivery standards APIs with USPS when you register.

>Note:
>If you have any problems with your USPS setup, then contact USPS directly. Shopify cannot obtain your USPS credentials for you, nor provide support for your USPS account.
